---
[Go back](/cook_book/)

# Pancakes

## Handy links

- [Youtube Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BPl7D20F2mE){:target="_blank"}
- [Ingredients List](https://www.buzzfeed.com/marietelling/best-pancake-recipe?utm_term=.qq9nV53Yx#.jbXw618Yd){:target="_blank"}

## Helpful Notes & Tips

Seperate the egg whites and yolks but keep both on hand as they're used at different times during the recipe.

Get milk to room temperature so it doesn't curdle the melted butter.

Makes around 8-10 pancakes.

Use only enough butter to keep the pan from non-sticking, don't do a large amount upfront.

## Ingredients

- 2 ½ cups all-purpose flour
- 3 tablespoons sugar
- 2 teaspoons kosher salt or 1/4 teaspoon normal salt
- 1 teaspoon baking powder
- 1 teaspoon baking soda
- 2 ½ cups buttermilk (600 mL)
- 8 tablespoons unsalted butter (113.4 g)
- 2 eggs, whites and yolks seperated
- 1 tablespoon unsalted butter
- Maple syrup to serve

## Steps

Before starting, prepare the ingredients and create buttermilk with 2-3 TBSP of vinegar and whole milk. Let it stand for 5-10 minutes.

1. In a large bowl, add the flour, sugar, salt, baking powder, and baking soda and whisk to combine.
2. In a medium bowl or liquid measuring cup, add the buttermilk, melted butter, and egg yolks and whisk to combine.
3. Add the buttermilk mixture to the dry ingredients and gently fold with a rubber spatula until just combined.
4. Add the egg whites and fold until just combined. Be sure not to overmix. Some lumps are okay.
5. Let the batter rest for 15-30 minutes at room temperature.
6. Add the butter to a cast iron skillet and heat over medium low heat. Once the butter has melted and is bubbling, reduce the heat to medium-low and add ⅓ cup (75 g) of batter to the pan.
7. Cook for 2-3 minutes, until bubbles start to appear on the surface. If adding any toppings like chocolate chips or blueberries, sprinkle over the pancake. Flip the pancake over and cook for another 1-2 minutes, until golden brown. Repeat with the remaining batter.
8. Serve the pancakes with butter and maple syrup.
9. Done

* * *

{% include youtube.html id='BPl7D20F2mE' %}
